I. INTRODUCTION
The development of cloud computing has significantly
changed how the IT sector functions today. Cloud
computing makes it possible to investigate better IT
services with lower expenses and less investment. The
popularity of software as a service has increased
because of cloud computing's impact on how IT
hardware is developed and procured. It is an internetbased technology that gives users access to serverstored data as a service whenever they want.
Customers only pay for the service they use because it
is a pay-as-you-go service. Cloud computing is as a
computing model in which massively scalable ITenabled capabilities are offered as a service to
numerous customers. It is the use of internet-based
computer technology for a variety of services (as
storage capacity, processing power, business
applications, or components). [1]. It is a set of
network-enabled services that offer scalable,
guaranteed, typically customized, relatively affordable
services in an easy-to-use manner. [2]. Cloud
computing is defined as a computing approach in
which enormously scalable IT-related capabilities are
delivered as a service through the internet to various
external consumers.[3]. This is an information
technology service paradigm in which hardware and
software are given to consumers on demand across a
network without the use of a device or location. [4].
The National Institute of Standards and Technology
defines cloud computing as a model for allowing
ubiquitous, convenient, a shared pool of customized
computing resources, and services that can be swiftly
supplied and deployed with minimum administrative
work or service contact. [5].Cloud computing are of
four types namely private cloud, public cloud,
community cloud, and hybrid cloud.. There are three
popular service models in cloud computing.They are
as follows:.. Platform as a service, infrastructure as a
service, and software as a service .These are all
examples of cloud computing..There are some
challenges to be considered in choosing a solution,
they also present tremendous chances with significant
rewards. This research will present an overview of
cloud computing architecture, features, and service
models, as well as discuss their advantages and
challenges.
II. HISTORY, LITERATURE REVIEW AND
METHODOLOGY ON CLOUD COMPUTING
A. History of cloud computing
Cloud computing was developed by John McCarthy in
1960.. "The use of computers,as a subject of research
may be arranged as a public utility
eventually."According to Parkhill in The computer
utility challenges [6]. The name "Cloud" computing
was introduced in telecommunication industry as a
virtual private network. .There was wastage of
Bandwidth using point-point data lines.Network
utilization was balanced using virtual private network..
Servers and network infrastructure are now included.
Cloud computing has been widely used by industry
participants. Amazon introduced Amazon web services
and this has been of great help to their business..
Furthermore, Google and IBM have both launched
cloud computing research. Eucalyptus was the first
open-source platform for private cloud deployment.
B. Literature review on cloud computing
Cloud computing, also known as the internet, was first
proposed by American Psychologist and Computer
scientist Lickliter J.C in 1960 with the aim of
connecting information, data, and people together
globally. As the years go on, the evolution of cloud
computing started around 2006 when Amazon
introduced “Amazon web services (AWS)” as an
elastic cloud computing. In 2008, Google introduced
the “Beta” version of search engine. In 2012, Oracle
rolled out Oracle cloud computing. Since the
Introduction of cloud computing by many
organizations, literature on the application,
significance and management of cloud computing have
been published over the years. For instance, [7]
focused on the adoption of internet computing in the
information technology industry in some developing
countries. The study focused on how the major
information management industry in Pakistan used a
constructive questionnaire to gather information about
the employees via email to validate the prototype). [8]
recommended that, to encourage better performance to
increase the effectiveness and enhancement of data
storage, the network providers must perform some new
tasks to increase the storage capacity of online data.
[9] evaluated how much larger memory space was
available in 2018 by using cloud housed 5347EB to
save data. This spacious memory allowed
organizations to store, examine, and acquire valuable
data on customers' information, interests, and
reactions. [10] proposed an internet computing device
that allows small companies to save and distribute
data. In recent years, there has been an upsurge in how
hackers have breached cloud computing security by
targeting computers to steal valuable data and damage
data stored using ransomware. [11] Emphasizing the
high-security level of cloud computing firms. Hackers
have acquired substantial smoothness in their exertion;
this has compelled organizations to spend quality time
and effort to develop an approach to keep data safe and
detect malware. These continuous attacks alert security
experts to enlarge their security and response time. [8]
To carry out this, firms must hire security experts who
are ready to keep data safe and sensitive information
away from hackers.
Likewise, the research conducted by [12] estimated the
use of the 5G network launched by the internet service
provider to increase the quality of services on the
internet. The launching of the 5G network in 2019
with a better speed for customers to access and load
customers information faster than the previous
networks, also enabling people and organizations to
send and receive information in real-time.
Furthermore, due to the widespread availability and
improvement of smartphones, mobile cloud computing
must be managed in terms of supporting apps and
processing capacity. According to [13], mobile cloud
computing is the combination of mobile and cloud
computing to provide mobile devices with processing
power, memory, and storage (2013). On the other
hand, [14] referred to mobile cloud computing in
another study as mobile cloud computing. [13] focused
on its applications, security, and uniform standard that
can improve the hardware and battery life of mobile
devices. [15] highlighted the importance of mobile
cloud computing on social network services like video
generation, gaming, and image management. This
study pointed at two mobile cloud computing models-
(2009), and the importance of intelligent access
strategies was accentuated by [16] in their journal on
cloud computing in bank industry, it was found that,
financial institutions are embracing new technologies
to gain a competitive advantage in the banking
industry and about 41% of the total 391 sampled
commercial banks and other financial institutions have
incorporated cloud computing and others have clearly
stated and developed plans to do so. The study pointed
out how cloud computing can interact with the newly
spring-up technologies to ensure mutual advantage,
increase cost benefits, control operational risks
involved in the integration of cloud computing with
bank sector activities, and maximize profit efficiency
which was done by the launching of "internet plus"
introduced by the government of China to conduct a
research on the largest banking system, the Chinese
banking sector in November 2012, in which cloud
computing played a crucial role as a part of national
strategies. Another related research conducted on the
dynamic workflow scheduling algorithm in cloud
computing was researched by [18] The study focused
on the use of cloud computing resources to perform
workflow tasks, the study designed a problem
scheduling dynamic workflow as a dynamic multiobjective optimization problem (DMOP), the source of
dynamism is both resource failure and the possibility
of modifying the number of objectives during the
period. The study proposed a predictive-based
dynamic multi-objective evolutionary algorithm
known as the NN-DNSGA-ii algorithm that
outperformed the other choices by merging an
artificial neural network with the DNSGA-ii.
In machine learning cloud computing, the
development of a machine learning approach is
generally employed. Computer vision, pattern
recognition, and bioinformatics are all used in various
businesses [19] The development of machine learning
techniques has benefited large-scale computer systems
[25]. [29] outlines Google's efforts to correct
electricity use, maximize profit efficiency, and
increase efficiency. Despite the previous works on
machine learning algorithms in cloud computing there
still existed uncertainty in the integration of machine
learning into cloud computing management, as a result
[26] presented a model to reinforce data usage from a
thorough analysis of the two most major data controls
resource management research activities to consolidate
previous works based on objective model.
Using cloud computing to develop knowledge
ambidexterity [20] Using a longitudinal case study,
they examined how cloud computing has contributed
to the development of knowledge ambidexterity (KAMB) by adopting a cross-theory technique to assess
the link that exists between information management
principles and ambidexterity. Prior studies revealed
that with the use of digital technology, knowledge
ambidexterity in efficiency might be obtained [27],
The study examined a framework connection that
exists between cloud computing and knowledge
ambidexterity, and KM actions from a factual
perspective to investigate how SMEs allow knowledge
ambidexterity innovation capabilities and stated the
major.
In the research on Securing authentication scheme in
cloud computing with a glimpse of an artificial neural
network, [30], focused on the survey of the cloud
security issues and authentication scheme, and offer a
glimpse of an artificial neural network applied to the
cloud security environment to provide users access
management with proper cloud security to deny access
from unauthorized person to access confidential data.
To achieve cloud security. The study set out security
goals to ensure data security that includes
authentication, confidentiality, integrity, and
accountability. [21] discussed the development of
block cipher using a neural network to achieve the
elementary. [21] estimated a Hopfield neutral network
and password authentication, this was achieved by a
pattern recall approach in which the data array of
encrypted passwords is hoarded on the server, and the
unplanned pattern recall approach used sparse coding
algorithms. Therefore, based on the artificial neural
network new cryptography is essential.
In a study regarding job scheduling in cloud
computing using a hybrid moth search algorithm, [28]
developed a similar algorithm with the aim of solving
the problem associated with cloud task scheduling to
minimize the required time to program a list of jobs on
different virtual machines. [23] performed a
differential evaluation using two techniques known as
photo taxis and levy flight possessed consideration and
squeezing ability to improve the already existing moth
search algorithm (MSA), (DE), since the performance
of the approach relies on the improvement on the
improved MSA to carry-out task scheduling in cloud
computing. Cloud computing in the management of
education institutions analyzed the role of cloud
computing in the management of educational
institutions and how the adoption can help to reduce
information technology costs while also achieving
better adaptability and portability. put forward a welldetailed introduction to the practice of cloud
computing in higher institutions. [24] evaluate the
initial position of the institution management and how
it will gear the incorporation into cloud computing that
is more reliable and efficient. They analyzed the
structural technologies and interconnected
components; they also initiated new services that will
take in place of many types of computational resources
presently used. In that view, they also considered that
grid computing will be engaged in a pivot role in
illustrating how cloud services will be offered. They
also developed a model that will meet the needs of the
students, procurement, finance, and accounting
department, etc. These services are controlled by the
cloud network provider to users every time they
demand.
C. Methodology
According to [34], the research technique approaches
and methods form the research methodology used in
collecting information regarding different parts of a
problem. The method adopted is descriptive method.
Materials for the writing was sourced through Google
scholar, Scopus. We came across different views about
cloud computing by different authors. Different
authors had their own definition of cloud computing.
The key thing we discovered about cloud computing is
that you pay as you use the service.
III. CLOUD COMPUTING ARCHITECTURE
The services delivered by cloud computing are
classified into three types. The front and back ends
[31]. The front end and back end are connected
through a network, which is usually the network. The
front end of a system is seen by the client (user), but
the back end is the system cloud. On the back end are
the client's computers, servers, and data storage. A
centralized server oversees system management, traffic
monitoring, and client requests. It employs specialized
software known as protocols and follows
predetermined standards. The following are the levels
and services of cloud computing architecture. The
client, the application, the platform, the infrastructure,
and the server [31]. A cloud customer is a collection of
computer hardware and software that leverages cloud
computing to offer applications designed specifically
to deliver cloud services [31]. The three forms of cloud
computing are listed below.
Cloud architectures are used by a variety of
applications, including web-based back-office bulk
processing systems. These are a few examples.
● Processing pipelines for document processing
to OCR:
This converts millions of pages and pictures
into searchable raw text and converts
thousands of documents from Microsoft Word
to PDF.
● Pipelines for image processing that may
encrypt MPEG or AVI movies. developing an
index for web crawlers Millions of records are
searched through data mining.
● System for batch processing: this type of
system is a Back-office application that can be
seen in the banking, insurance, and retail
industries. log analysis is used to generate
daily and weekly reports.
● Night builds perform concurrent automated
builds of the source code repository each
night. Deployment testing and automated unit
testing carry out functional, quality, and load
testing on many configurations.
● Websites This includes websites that scale
automatically during the day but are redundant
at night. Instant websites are websites
designed specifically for conferences or
events. Seasonal websites operate according to
the seasons, such as during the holidays or tax
season. Model for cloud computing services
In addition to the five qualities, the following three
service models are used to categorize cloud services.
A. Infrastructure-as-a-service (LaaS)
Cloud users directly make use of the necessary
computer resources and information technology
infrastructure, such as processing, storage, networks,
and other, that are made available by the cloud. In the
(IaaS) cloud, virtualization is frequently used to
combine and separate physical resources as needed to
meet the variable resource demands of cloud users.
The core virtualization strategy involves creating
distinct virtual machines (VM) that are isolated from
both the underlying hardware and other VMs. Since
numerous instances (from separate cloud users) can
operate on a single application thanks to the multitenancy paradigm, the software architecture of the
application is altered. Contrary to that model, this
tactic is different. Google, App Engine, Microsoft
Azure, Java, and developer tools are a few examples of
infrastructure as a service.
B. Platform as a service (PaaS)
A platform for development known as "platform as a
service" enables users of the cloud to build cloud
services and apps by supporting the whole "software
lifecycle." In contrast to SaaS, which only hosts
finished cloud applications, this provides a
development platform that hosts both finished and inprogress cloud applications. As a result, PaaS offers
development infrastructure such as configuration
management, tools, programming environments, and
other components in addition to a hosting
environment. Microsoft Azure, Google App Engine,
developer tools, and Java are a few examples of PaaS.
C. Software as a service (SaaS)
A variety of customers with access to networks can
access the program that cloud customers publish in a
hosting environment (such as web browsers). To
achieve economies of scale and optimization in terms
of speed, availability, disaster recovery, maintenance,
and security, users of the applications of various cloud
consumers are grouped on the SaaS cloud in a single
logical environment.
The cloud infrastructure commonly employs a multitenancy system architecture and is not under the
user's control. Examples include Salesforce, Google
Docs, and Google.
D. Data storage as service (DaaS)
Virtualized storage that is made available on
demand is now a separate cloud service called data
storage service. Excellent data storage service. as a
unique IaaS type. This is due to the fact that expensive
upfront expenses for on-premises enterprise database
systems are sometimes associated with dedicated
servers, software licenses, post-delivery services, and
internal IT maintenance. Customers can use DaaS to
pay only for the services they use rather than obtaining
a site license for the entire database. Along with more
traditional storage interfaces like file systems and
relational database management systems (RDBMS),
which are frequently too big, too slow, and quite
expensive, some data storage service providers also
offer table-style abstractions that store and retrieve a
sizable amount of data in a highly compressed
timescale.
IV. CHARACTERISTICS OF CLOUD
COMPUTING
According to the National Institute of Standards
and Technology [5], cloud computing has five features
that make it suitable for information technology
applications and services.
A. On-demand self service
On-demand self-service: Cloud services such as server
time, storage, web applications, computing power, and
networks may be delivered automatically to consumers
as needed, eliminating the need for human interaction.
B. Resource pooling
Cloud providers pool their computing resources
together to accommodate multiple customers. This is
accomplished either through virtualization, which uses
virtual machines to replicate physical hardware or
through "multi-tenancy," which allows multiple users
of the same resources. This is made possible by having
various physical and virtual resources that are
dynamically assigned and reassigned in response to
changing consumer demand (Mell,2009) [32].
The concept of a pool-oriented computing paradigm is
inspired by economies of scale and resource
specialization. Physical computing resources have
resulted in this community paradigm. It suggests that
the customers are unaware of the available resources.
Consumers are oblivious to the origins, location, and
physical composition of the resources they utilize.
Customers are unable to identify the place in certain
clouds where their data is supposed to be kept. This
enables resource pooling without exposing the
resource provider's management structure and allows
for fully flexible resource offering to clients.
C. Broad network access
Numerous clients (applications) that access the
required computer resources through a network,
mostly the internet, employ a range of platforms,
including laptops, microcomputers, and mobile
phones, all of which are present at the consumer's end.
The benefits of cloud computing can be expanded
thanks to broadband network connectivity.
D. Rapid elasticity
Numerous clients (applications) that access the
required computer resources through a network,
mostly the internet, employ a range of platforms,
including laptops, microcomputers, and mobile
phones, all of which are present at the consumer's end.
The benefits of cloud computing can be expanded
thanks to broadband network connectivity. Numerous
clients (applications) that access the required computer
resources through a network, mostly the internet,
employ a range of platforms, including laptops,
microcomputers, and mobile phones, all of which are
present at the consumer's end. The benefits of cloud
computing can be expanded thanks to broadband
network connectivity.
E. Measured service
In a cloud environment, multiple users may share
computer resources (multi-tenancy), but the cloud
infrastructure may make use of tools to monitor how
each user is using these resources. The cloud
computing metering methods enable for the individual
invoicing of numerous cloud users.
V. CLOUD COMPUTING DEPLOYMENT TYPE
There are basically three types of cloud, private cloud,
public cloud, and hybrid cloud. These are classified
based on the size of the network, security, and the
number of users
A. Private cloud
A private cloud is developed and maintained
especially for a single firm, but the administrator also
allows outside companies to use the cloud. The private
cloud allows for on-site or off-site activities. The
private cloud provides good cost management, cost
control, privacy, and energy efficiency. Private clouds
have a limited capacity and are restricted to a certain
area.
B. Public cloud
This is a cloud computing service that the public
or anyone can use or purchase. It is provided by a third
party over the public internet. Customers using this
type of service only pay for the services they really
utilize. If they have internet availability, every
employee of the organization can use the programme
from any office or branch using whatever device they
choose.
C. Community cloud
Several institutions or organizations with similar
objectives host a community cloud. It is frequently
used in universities for both teaching and research.
Businesses have the option of managing the cloud
system themselves, either on- or off-site, or by
outsourcing with a different organization to handle
daily system operations.
D. Hybrid cloud
Different cloud systems comprise a hybrid cloud. It
typically consists of two or more distinct clouds. For
instance, a company may opt to use the public cloud
for daily operations while storing sensitive data in their
own data center. Using a hybrid cloud could have
several advantages. Large and well-known
organizations are more likely to make significant
investments in the infrastructure needed to offer
resources internally. Safety is an additional factor.
VI. BENEFITS AND CHALLENGES OF CLOUD
COMPUTING
There are many benefits cloud computing offers to its
users that encourages them to adopt it. Cost reduction,
increased productivity and easy scalability are the
main benefits of adopting cloud computing.
A. Cost reduction
The usage of the software as a service enables
commercial organizations to pay less for information
technology resources, improving both the performance
and profitability of their operations. Customers are
required to pay according to their usage. Customers
that need an application for a brief period, pay the
application's license fees. The cost of purchasing
unneeded resources and apps is reduced by the cloudbased solution. Users may benefit from continual
upgrades and maintenance without the costs and time
constraints associated with it in this case because the
service provider owns and hosts. Clients who use
cloud computing technology are not required to create
data backups. For the storage of data, cloud service
providers use several redundant locations. This is
acceptable for business continuity and incident
recovery. Business enterprises are not concerned about
data loss and recovery from backups [33].
B. Increased productivity
Due to the rapid growth of technology, consumers are
becoming more demanding. They need the products
sooner and in reduced hours. To use information
technology solutions like collaborative online services
and remote access applications, businesses must
adhere to these standards. Business applications for
cloud computing must be accessible through computer
systems that are online or in the cloud. accessibility to
the programmes that are constantly and everywhere
open to users. Organizations and businesspersons can
use cloud-based apps provided by various suppliers to
arrange meetings and send and receive emails or
messages. Additionally, cloud computing has
improved mobility. Businesses can use a laptop or
smartphone equipped with a web browser to access
cloud services.
C. Scalability
Cloud computing is a scalable model which enables
on-demand company scalability. Examples are SaaS,
PaaS, IaaS. Scalability is another feature of cloud
computing that can be beneficial. Depending on the
current demand for services, a business can reduce the
number of virtual servers it uses at any time. The room
they require or adjust it to their preferred pattern of
growth. This is cost effective especially for smaller
businesses that are trying to save cost. Small
businesses do not have to pay a fixed amount for a
dedicated data center hosting but can scale up the kind
of space needed on a dedicated server. This really
saves the company cost.
CLOUD COMPUTING CHALLENGES
Cloud computing technologies has numerous
challenges for several sectors of handling data and
information. Consequently, if you choose to deploy
cloud infrastructure services, you may face the
following difficulties and dangers.
[35]
A. Security and privacy
These include the organizational and technical
difficulties of maintaining a sufficient level of data
privacy and security in cloud services. This guarantees
that serious security and privacy problems about the
security and privacy of crucial or sensitive data for a
business, like banks, arise when government entities
use the cloud. Although it is widely accepted that
service level agreements between cloud service
providers and customers are required, there are
currently no formal safety requirements. Things like
machine detection, side-channel assaults, encryption,
and authentication are among the data security and
privacy issues.
B. Interoperability and portability
Service portability between different cloud providers is
leading to several issues. Due to the lack of defined
formats and interfaces for managing virtual appliances
and uniform interfaces for interacting with different
clouds, this issue exists. There is currently no standard
way to communicate with clouds. Instead, many cloud
providers present various APIs. Standardizing APIs
among the many cloud service providers is necessary
to develop a common cloud interface.
C. Legal issues
The use of cloud resources as a utility has raised
numerous legal concerns.Data placement is the
primary problem.Different regions and jurisdictions
have very different laws and regulations regarding
where,how,and how long data should be
stored.Regarding the disclosure of data in general and
sensitive data in particular for instance data from
financial and health sector.,compliance requirements
may differ.In addition to the issues of identity
definition, such as users versus system and issues of
authentication and authorization.,another significant
issue is the absence of comprehensive legislation on
liability in the cloud.
D. Economic Challenges
The cost of the physical infrastructure and the
administrative costs connected to it are essential in
determining the viability of the business from an
economic perspective.. This issue has to do with the
cost-benefit element of cloud computing. Cloud
service companies must develop efficient monetization
plans that will yield a respectable return on their
efforts. The plan calls for developing viable pricing
structures, implementing licensing plans, and grouping
resources. Since diverse providers handle invoicing
and payments, it might be difficult to ascertain the
type,calibre,and availability of services that the
consumer is paying for.Financial benchmarking and
evaluation of various providers are therefore
challenging.
E. Data Management
Due to the increased data-intensive applications that
cloud computing enables at the largest scale, there is
an increased need for efficient data management
solutions.Data storage falls under this heading..Data
segmentation,recovery,location,authenticity,anonymiz
ation,and backup are all parts of data.Data retrieval
and processing are additional problems with cloud
computing across different data centers.
F. Service Management
Service management faced various difficulties with the
cloud-based IT strategy. The capacity to offer
individualized and more context-sensitive services
present another difficulty. For a variety of reasons,
managing the service life cycle and service registry has
proven to be difficult.
G. Quality
The fundamental problem in the field of cloud service
quality is the design and implementation of servicelevel agreements.. Lack of a service-level contract
between cloud firms makes adoption of cloud
computing more difficult since it impacts user
confidence in the dependability and availability of
services. Negotiation and benchmarking are
challenging due to the lack of a clear set of service
level targets and quality of service assessments. The
quality of the user experience, especially in
multimedia, streaming video, and online gaming.
CONCLUSION
In this research, we discussed the architecture, types,
characteristics of cloud computing is key in
information technology as it reduces cost for
organizations and makes it easier to access files. It also
helps to reduce data delay and redundancy. Any
organization that wants to adopt cloud computing
should consider the key challenges which is security
and privacy.