Abstract—Internet of Things (IoT) based systems, most predominantly, the machine to machine communication based systems, have evolved in the recent past for an effective delivery of
services with minimal human intervention. In general, IoT cloudassisted solutions could serve several applications, including the
Smart Home Automation, due to the availability of high-speed
mobile networks coupled with cost effective, accessible and fast
embedded hardware. In fact, there exists a few smart home solutions in the market that aim at automating the basic operations
of home appliances. However, most of these systems focus on
mimicking the basic operations of the electrical switches. This
paper attempts to unfold a Smart Home Automation system using
Natural Language Processing (NLP) and IoT cloud solutions. The
proposed system was able to remotely control smart homes in a
secure and in a customized manner; the approach could precisely
monitor home devices with the application of GoogleAPI for
integrating devices. Experiments were carried out at the IoT
Cloud research lab of IIITKottayam such that a mini-Smart
Home environment was setup to remotely control the sensors
such as humidity and temperatures of Smart Homes. The paper
described a method to create an end user product using 3D
modeling and 3D printing facilities. In addition, the paper have
unfolded the state-of-the-art research works carried out in the
field of smart home automation using NLPs.
Index Terms—Cloud computing, IoT, NLP, Smart Home Automation.
I. INTRODUCTION
Smart Home (SH), as defined by the Oxford dictionary, is a
home equipped with lighting, heating, and electronic devices
that can be controlled remotely by smart-phone or computer.
SH, generally, collaborates with sensors which generate numerous amount of continuous data. It has now been evolved
into more than a connection between autonomous devices and
appliances. This domain of IoT is evolving rapidly to gain
intelligence and even becoming capable of communicating
with people. According to [1], computers will increasingly
be embedded in our natural movements and interactions with
our environments, both physical and social. This means we
are close to having a transparent social relationship with an
autonomous system. This idea is similar to the one Mark
Weiser foresaw, in 1991, in which computers would increasingly enable the integration of simple objects, such as clothing
labels, air conditioners, light switches, online classes and
more, in unobtrusive way in the user’s life.
In fact, IoT has added value to the SH domain and similar
machine oriented domains. It is predicted that the amount of
devices connected to the Internet will rise from about 23.14
billion today to 75.44 billion by 2025 [2] Source: statista.com
(Figure 1). IoT based machines are the largest data source
capturing each and every moment through smart watches,
smart phones, flights, surveillance cameras etc. From a crossFig. 1. The number of devices in billion to the respective year.
country flight approximately 2,499,841,200 Terabytes [3] of
sensor data is captured.
How sensor data needs to be collected or monitored in
an SH domain? Should data be smaller or larger in size?
continuous or discrete? Should data be efficient for battery
operated devices? These are a few general questions that arise
in SH domains. In general, business oriented SH use sensor
data to:
• Track behaviour of personal involved in the SH.
• Improve customer experience and engagement of them.
• Boost sales on large scale SH.
• Provide recommendations or suggestions.
In order to handle and process large volume of evolving
data, Cloud Storage and Cloud environments are utilized in
the most of the existing SH frameworks. This is due to the fact
that the home appliances are having less memory and power
to store and compute data generated by the sensors – i.e.,
the services are outsourced to some external cloud providers.
In succinct, the whole domain of SH relies on the Cloud
Providers for their :
• Scalability
• High Performance
• Reliability
• Recoverability
• Security
• Cost Efficiency
Although sensor data could be utilized in cloud servers to
process SH applications, the automation of services are still
remaining a challenge to consumers. This paper attempts to
utilize Natural Language Processing (NLP) in SH applications
in order to provide remote monitoring and controlling of smart
appliances. In short, NLP is a subfield of computer science
that helps computer systems to process and analyze large
amounts of natural language data. NLP provides a mechanism
to communicate with the home appliances such as refrigerators
or Air conditioners in the form of short messages, including
voice data.
The contributions of paper are listed as follows:
1) A state-of-the-art survey on the field of NLP for IoT
based SH domain is discussed.
2) A smart home automation system using NLP and IoT
Cloud approaches was implemented. The approach was
experimented with a few sensors such as humidity and
temperature sensors at the IoT Cloud research laboratory
of our premise.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II
presents the statistics on the articles selected for this work.
Section III discusses on the approaches of different articles
and formulates a basic architecture to discuss the state of
the art. Section IV talks about the implementation of the
idea with results in Section V. Section VI highlights the
challenges to be taken upon by the potential researchers.
Finally, Section VII concludes the paper.
II. APPLICATION OF NLPS AND IOTCLOUD FOR SMART
HOMES – THE SURVEY APPROACH
Relevant articles were searched using the keywords “Internet of Things (IoT)”, “Smart Home” and "Natural Language
Processing". Studies on energy management [4] and other
subdomains of Smart Home and automation were excluded.
The search scope was restricted to those studies written
in English and those that entirely focus on implementation
of NLP in IoT-based SH. The digital databases used for
the articles search included: (1) IEEE Xplore, a scholarly
database that supplies reliable articles in electronic technologies, electrical engineering, and computer science; (2) Elsevier,
a global information analytics company that helps institutions
and professionals to progress science, advance healthcare and
improve performance; and (3) Springer, provide scientific and
professional communities with superior specialist information.
These databases cover a sufficient amount of research on
IoT and its applications in smart homes from a wide range
of disciplines. A total of 40 papers were collected from
the search, among which 30 articles are from IEEE, 2 are
from Elsevier and 8 from Springer. The filtered articles were
published from 2005 to 2018. 90% are from 2015 to 2018.
These articles were separated in three rounds. In the first
round duplicates were removed. In the second round, the titles
and abstracts of the collected papers were scanned, eventually
resulting in the exclusion of 30 papers. Among these 22 were
not focused on NLP implementation, 7 were related to multiple
topics on IoT based SH technology such as security, energy
management etc. In the final filtering after reading full text of
9 papers, we got 6 papers related to our survey.
These studies on the implementation of NLP in SH were
then mapped into a general and coarse-grained taxonomy
of three classes that were derived from a pre-survey of the
literature (Google Scholar was used to gain insights on the
landscape and direction of these studies). We observed several
patterns from the literature and created a taxonomy as shown
in Figure( 2). We distinguished several subcategories although
some overlapping areas were observed.
III. STATE OF THE ART – SURVEY AND DISCUSSIONS
Fig. 3. State of the Art : basics of NLP based Architecture.
Generally speaking, the goal of implementing NLP in SH
is to deploy the computational techniques for the analysis
and synthesis of natural language and speech. This section
discusses various architectures proposed recently in different
papers. An attempt to evaluate and do their quality assessment is also made and then an architecture is proposed. The
quality of the NLP implementation depends on the followings
Figure( 3) :
A. Environment
The communication protocols, devices and softwares used
for implementation of NLP defines the initiation of the process. This creates the environment for further execution.
1) Communication Protocol: The communication between
the user and the system is established by four methods; via
a mobile phone, physical contact, the Internet or speech.
Selecting a SH Communication protocol is itself considered
a challenging task as a protocol that supports a large number
of devices is needed. Further, it must also provide the devices
ability to talk to each other. Apart from this there are also other
2
Fig. 2. Taxonomy of literature on NLP based Smart Homes
factors that must consider like power consumption, bandwidth,
cost effeciency, etc. [5]
Bluetooth connectivity is highly restricted to a small area
and is range sensitive. Also, a particular user can be connected
at a time. [6] used Bluetooth connectivity. ZigBee is also a
wireless home automation protocol. Though setting up the
ZigBee module is simple but the coverage is small and
operates in particular bandwidths only. There are security
breaches too. The replacement cost is also high.
The GSM is an excellent choice in establishing a communication from remote locations where Internet may not be
available. [7] [8] [9] WiFi technology surpass all other modes
serving most of the implementation of NLP in the papers such
as [10] [11] [12] and many more.
2) Devices: For SH there is need of micro-controllers, sensors and efficient power supply. Machine to Machine (M2M)
communication in SH lowers the human involvement in decision making by machines. Raspberry Pi and Arduino UNO are
the most common micro-controllers used. Raspbian, a Debian
based computer operating system for Raspberry Pi and the ease
of using Python (an open source programming language) with
Raspberry Pi makes it preferable over other micro-controllers.
[5] LoRa is a long range, low power wireless platform which
should be the priority for SH.
3) Softwares: Raspbian, Python, WebIOPi [5], Google API,
HTML, Javascript, and several machine learning algorithms
such as Convolution Neural Network(CNN), Artificial Neural
Network(ANN), Support Vector Machine(SVM),etc. are the
software requirements of NLP implementation.
B. Sound Processing
The sound or signal from the devices through the communication protocol is now to be received. So, there is a need for
sound receiver, and sound processing like sound enhancement
and sound recognition.
1) Sound Receiver: Most of the NLP system in SH use the
basic sound receiving system i.e, through microphone. The
sound can be collected at the microphone of smart-phone [7]
[10], mic attached to micro-controllers or through microphones
around the SH specially dedicated toward NLP. The sound
collected is sent to the Cloud for further processing.
3
2) Sound Enhancement: For signal enhancement, the spectral subtraction approach [13] has gained high popularity in
recent years. The perceptual filterbank and Signal to Noise
Ratio (SNR) subspace-based method are the most advanced
enhancement technique. [14]
3) Sound Recognition: Sound Recognition is carried out
in the Cloud. The fast computing feature of Cloud Service
Providers recognizes the sound mainly using the machine
learning algorithms. In this survey, we came came across two
methods of Sound Recognition:
• Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) [7] [15]
• Sound Recognition With ICA-TRANSFORMED MFCCS
and FRAME-BASED multiclass SVM [14]
Sound Recognition process doesn’t only recognizes the
human voices in the sound but also provides security. The
feature extraction also recognizes the person whose voice
is there and ensures privacy and security. The trained NLP
system works with only authorized voices. Speech is then
converted to text using the Sound Recognition Algorithm such
as Neural Networks, SVM, etc. Most of the papers have
implemented Google API for this. [5]
C. Command Interpretation and Command Execution
[16] The local server is always on listening, waiting for user
command. After it receives a command it sends the command
to a remote server. The interpreted command is then executed
by the brain class which identifies the desired device and
forwards the request using the appropriate interfaces.
The overall analysis of the architectures of all the papers
under survey points to a common architecture depicted in
Figure( 4) with the flow of NLP execution.
IV. SMART HOME - AN NLP BASED IOTCLOUD
APPROACH
Figure( 4) describes the proposed architecture that uses
NLP for processing smart home applications using IoT Cloud
solutions. The steps involved in the proposed NLP based
IoTCloud infrastructure of SH includes:
1) The sound or voice of the user is transmitted to the
microphone, smart-phone or any other device. See (1)
of Figure 4.
2) The appliances like AC, refrigerator, fan or bulb receives
the sound(command) as shown in (2) of the Figure.
3) These appliances use any of the communication protocols such as (3) ZigBee, WiFi, bluetooth, internet,
and so forth to send the sound command to the cloud
for processing and storing commands. The sound is
enhanced by any of the above mentioned techniques.
The quality sound is then processed to get the voice of
user(human). If there is no human voice, the sound is
ignored else the voice is recognized by the pre-trained
data-set for the user voice. If the voice is matched, the
command is executed making the necessary actuators(6)
work.
A. Application Development
The Android App (Figure 5) was developed using the
Google API 17 for sound recognition and ThingSpeak18 as
the Cloud Source. The application consists of features for
monitoring the Container Level, Humidity, Temperature, Air
Quality, Fire, Garden Humidity level and controlling the fans,
lights and ACs of SH.
B. Productization
In this work, we have not only designed the architecture but
also we attempted to productize the architecture as an end-user
product. [19] To do so, we have designed a 3Dmodel using
Tinkercad20 software and utilized the 3D printer available at
our site to prepare the product. Figure 6 shows the created
3Dmodel and Figure 7 describes the UNO prototype which
were developed for productization.
Fig. 6. 3D Design for the Humidity, Temperature and Air Sensor Monitor
designed using Tinkercad.
Fig. 7. The Arduino UNO prototyping circuit diagram for Container Monitor
using Ultrasonic Sensor.
Finally a fully functional product was developed which
monitors the air quality, humidity, temperature and inventory
[21] in the kitchen as well as the fire and smoke detector using
the developed architecture.
4
Fig. 4. NLP Assisted architecture with the basic description of the common flow of NLP.
Fig. 5. The design of the Android Application which displays the humidity
value.
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
Figure 8 shows the monitored temperature (°C), humidity(%), air quality(ppm.), smoke level, flame, and container
depth (cm.) respectively in A, B, C, D, E, and F. We monitored
the features for a month in December 2018 at IoT Cloud
research laboratory of IIITKottayam.
VI. IDENTIFIED RESEARCH CHALLENGES
Most of the challenges in NLP are listed as follows: human
language understanding, enabling computers to derive meaning
from the voice commands given to it through human (natural) language, and others involve natural language interaction
between computers and humans. [10] Different people have
different slang, pronunciations which creates a delusion in
recognition. Cold and cough can change the voice of a person
leading to restriction on accessing the devices. The voice
recognition unit needs to be skilled in advance to be used
to recognize commands.
In the real environment of Smart Home Care, there are
usually unwanted signals and additive noise that negatively
affect the voice communication with the control system. [22]
So there is a need for filtering the additive background noise
out of the voice communication with the control system. The
additive noise significantly lowers the success of recognizing
voice commands to control operating and technical functions
of an intelligent building.
VII. CONCLUSION
Smart home (SH) applications are emerging in the IoT
market. Several researchers have attempted to utilize several
techniques such as Cloud and Edge computing to drive the
technology in a decentralized fashion without much utilization
of power consumption at end devices. The application of
NLP to SH applications can help differently abled and elderly
people to control devices and do day-to-day activities by
feeding their voice as input to the system. This paper had
designed an NLP assisted IoT cloud application for SH. We
have also delved into the state-of-the-art survey on the existing
research trends in the SH domain. The proposed architecture
was implemented at the IoT Cloud laboratory of IIITKottayam.
In addition, we had productized by creating 3D models and
by applying 3Dprinting facility of the lab.
